

Hello from Erica


The way I see it, and mind you this is just me brainstorming on my own, is that this program
will need these things to work:

-An Instrument Class to hold all the data
-An Account Class to hold the information of the person currently logged in
-Some assorted methods to handle reading from and writing to wherever our data is stored
-A ton of assorted methods that manipulate all the data in the ways we want
-A GUI to tie it all together

The first two things are pretty self explanatory, but all of these things need some planning before
we go out and do em..

I've done a bit of spitballing on my own about how to structure parts of the program and how to divide
up the work, which will follow after this. Feel free to make suggestions; once we agree on something I
can do all the tedious setting up and then we can all get to coding.

And also be warned that literally none of this is brief, at all. Grab a snack and prepare for a read.







FILE STRUCTURE

This is a huge one, and one we need to figure out ASAP. There are a few things we need to store, in a concise and
logical way.
	-Data of users
	-Data of instruments
	-Instrument Sign Out History
	
The users thing is pretty much covered, if the login system we copypasted works. It's the instruments and their history that
are the issue, and I've thought up a solution that is pretty simple, and almost exactly what I used for the constellations
assignment. We need one file for this; the instrument data file. It would be delimited, and structured as follows:

	Name;ID;currentUser;name,name,name,name...
	Name;ID;currentUser;name,name,name...
	
It would be fairly simple to read. Set the scanner to use ";" as a delimiter, read in three the first three pieces of
information. Then use Scanner.nextLine() to grab the entirety of what is left in the line. The string that results can be
split into an array using the delimiter "," and stored in the class keeping track of that instrument. Repeat indefinitely.

See my proposed design for the Instrument class for more information on how this structure would work translated to java.

We should also probably encrypt both our data files as much as possible, using irreversible encryption for passwords and
reversible encryption for everything else. That way, if someone who knows what they're doing manages to find the files,
they'll find it extremely difficult to pull any shenanigans like changing usernames or editing an instrument's history.

Where we put the files can be considered later. Right now, we can just read in from local text files. If we want to change
that later to the school's internal server or something, we can, but for the time being text files are easier.






THE INSTRUMENT CLASS:

Purpose:
	Pretty much just there to hold information in memory. It's data will be mostly unchangeable once created,
	except for a few key variables.

Variables:
	-name - a string which will hold the name of the instrument, like "Clarinet" or "Trumpet" or whatever.
	-ID - an int or similar variable that will hold some kind of unique identifier, to tell apart instruments
	with the same name.
	-isAvailable - a boolean value tracking whether the instrument is in or out. True if it's ready to go,
	False if it's been signed out or if it's out for service.
	-curUser - a string. If the instrument is available, this string should be empty. If the instrument has been
	signed out by someone, this string will contain that student's name. If the instrument is out for service,
	it will contain "Out For Service" or some similar indicator.
	-userHist - an arraylist of Strings. This will contain the names of every person who has ever signed out
	this instrument. The first person who ever signed it out will be the first person in the list. The most
	recent person who used it will be the last person in the list.
	
Method Ideas:
	-toString() - returns a string containing all relevant information on the instrument, nicely formatted. An
	example format for this would be something like: "Name  ID  Status", where Name is the name of the instrument,
	ID is the instrument's unique identifier, and Status is either that it's available, out for service, or the
	name of whoever has it signed out.
	-isAvailable() - returns the boolean variable of the same name.
	-I dunno man, we can make em as we need em

Why I Designed It Like This:
	The instrument class is just a data holder, so it doesn't need to do anything special. It could just as easily
	represent laptops or art supplies or anything else that can be signed in, signed out, or serviced. It doesn't
	need any special methods, nor do we need inheritance or abstract classes for it. All we need is a way to store
	info, and retrieve info, which this structure achieves with a single compact class.
	I know using stuff we've been taught this year is imperative to getting a good mark, but the key to good coding
	is being concise and readable, and good coding always begets good compsci marks. Since the instruments don't
	actually have to act like instruments, having an abstract class and an extended class for each instrument seems
	like overkill to me.
	
	
	
	
THE ACCOUNT CLASS:

Purpose:
	To hold the information of whoever is currently logged in, in memory. There are two options for how to build it.
	One, make it so that everything can be changed. We create one Account object at the start of the program and that
	same object is used no matter how many times someone logs in or out. Two, make it so that almost nothing about
	the object can be changed after it's created. Every time someone logs in, we create an account object. Every time
	someone logs out, we destroy that object. Personally, I think option one is easier to work with, and if we do it
	right it helps avoid errors.

Variables:
	-fname - a string. The current user's first name, blank if no one is logged in
	-lname - a string. The current user's last name, blank if no one is logged in
	-isAdmin - a boolean. True is the user has admin privileges, False if they're a regular user. Note that this wouldn't
	be an option at registration or anything; the one admin profile to rule them all would have to be manually assigned
	an admin through one of us editing the database.

Method Ideas:
	-toString() - it would display all relevant information, formatted nicely, much like the toString() method of the
	instrument class I described above.
	-idk

Why I Designed it Like This:
	It's just another information holder. It doesn't need to do anything all that fancy. Just hold stuff in one
	convenient place. Most of the reasons I put for the instrument apply to this too.
	

	
	

ALL THE PROCESSING WE NEED TO DO:

From what I can see, the easiest way to get all the data manipulation going is with methods. We have a bunch of static
global variables --a list of instruments, the current user, etc-- and a class full of public static methods. These methods
would be the meat of the program, the engine in it's entirety, and we would each be responsible for coding a roughly equal
amount of these methods.

I'd guess our program could have the following things:
	-Add a user to the data file
	-Remove a specific user from the data file
	*-Add/remove admin privileges for an account on file (wouldn't work for the currently
	logged in user, so that if there's a single admin they can't un-admin themselves and
	break the program.)
	*-Sign in an instrument
	*-Sign out an instrument
	*-Modify the service status of an instrument; whether it's in or out right now
	*-Add an instrument to the data file
	*-Remove an instrument from the data file
	-Various retrieval methods...
		*-A list of all instruments
		*-A list of instruments that meet certain criteria, like sharing a name, etc
		-A list of all users
		*-A list of all the instruments used by a specific person
		
Not all of those are necessary. Probably. But it gives us a lot to work with. I've starred the ones I think are
absolutely necessary.

Some of those are definitely easier than others. If you see a job you want to do, say so, I guess? Just remember that each of
these functions would ideally be it's own singular method.






I AM NOW TIRED

I was gonna write a spheal on file io and how we might handle that in a nice neat concise way, and then something about GUI,
but I'm tired of writing now dammit. I'll probably add to it on the weekend or something. (Tis thursday's eve as I type) Please
consider my above ideas, and if there's anything you have to add or change then don't hesitate to bring it up.

-Erica





